hi in the Virunga volcanoes of rwanda we
have the largest of all the apes in
these strange forests I hope to have my
first ever encounter with mountain
gorillas in the last few years this
area's been ravaged by war and it's only
very recently that it's been possible to
come and see the gorillas I'm really
close now I can't believe it
the grinders have been here you can see
the grounds all been flattened this is
where they've been stripping bamboo
celery
I can hear them just ahead that's
apparently food Corina manners they
actually grant know you're coming
if just what are the most fantastic
moments of my life I can't believe what
sitting here surrounded by a group of
compounding critters and right it
brought to me is the silverback he's the
dominant male on reaching full maturity
males gets older gray hair on their
backs on the ground Apes from larger
more organized groups and he is
definitely the head of his family
everyone seems to know their correct
place and act accordingly
just so calm and tranquil as well
obviously having that rest break this
yester after feeding a bit of recreation
time is also good for making friends
gorillas seem to have a very strong
sense of personal space and always
choose to sit together with their
closest pals the younger ones they can
never sit still for long
during these yester breaks The Young
Ones love to gather round the silverback
you think he might be a rather
intimidating father but actually he's
really very very gentle with them and
also loves the play he's careful to curb
its strength when he does first thing
with each other encourages the
youngsters especially the male's to beat
top and test their strengths but also to
learn how to control it
in these play sessions you can already
see distinct personalities emerging and
some very special friendships during
this yester time there's always plenty
going on among the adults too
a young male tries to get intimate with
a female but she's not remotely
interested but not much happens without
the boss's say so he can get pretty
tough
if he thinks anyone's out of line he's
got to be one of the most impressive
animals in the world it's 200 kilos
he's definitely keeping his family in
order
but it's not long before everything
calms down again it's lunch finally
she's eating a mixed salad eating the
stuff called rakeesha which is actually
quite beat-up what they do is they mix
it hmm that's very good the bamboo makes
it really succulent a recipe for The
Naked chefs repertoire perhaps when
watching Glynnis I tried to keep my
distance as humans share all the same
diseases and can easily pass on a cold
or flu but of course the gorillas are
oblivious to this
so the bank decides when it's time to
move off and then all his females follow
him this is the other silverback the
number two in the group there's suddenly
a whole lot of activity from being
completely calm and quiet they're all
moving the group head off a little way
but a couple of adolescent males came
back this is a black bag they actually
act as like the rearguard to the group
these two are 11 and 13 and just like
any young lads that keen to show off
especially in the presence of a film
crew a good show of strength but has it
impressed his friend it looks like there
might be a bit of one-upmanship going on
here okay that was good but I wonder
what's next
being kicked by a gorilla thinks of
privilege but I'm hoping the other one
doesn't decide to go one better I try
not to pay too much attention of course
that's one way of capping it
and easy pushover not that I was going
to put up too much resistance to one
hundred and forty odd kilos of gorilla
and now he looks as pleased as punch
with himself I think that just might
have won him the contest the rest of the
family group has settled again nearby I
get my first glimpse of the newborn baby
it's tiny it was probably just born last
night the mother is called in panga and
this is her first
like many of the gorillas she lost her
foot to a snare and survived against the
odds this baby is a good omen
gorillas face many dangers and every new
baby counts there are fewer than 350 of
these mountain gorillas left in the wild
over the last few decades they've been
teetering on the edge of extinction
but despite poaching and recent Wars
they're still here thanks the
International conservation efforts and
dedicated local people so long as those
efforts continue these magnificent
animals should have a future